---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Welcome to DAO DAO

DAO DAO [is a
DAO](https://daodao.zone/dao/juno10h0hc64jv006rr8qy0zhlu4jsxct8qwa0vtaleayh0ujz0zynf2s2r7v8q)
that builds DAOs. We build powerful, [open
source](https://github.com/DA0-DA0), DAO tooling.

The best way to learn is via play. You can make a DAO for free on the
Juno testnet at [testnet.daodao.zone](https://testnet.daodao.zone).

## Why DAOs?

DAOs are programmable organizations with easily inspectible
states. DAOs can help govern everything from an [Internet community of
dogs](https://daodao.zone/dao/juno1czh5dy2kxwwt5hlw6rr2q25clj96sheftsdccswg9qe34m3wzgdswmw8ju)
to the [development funds of entire
blockchains](https://daodao.zone/dao/juno1gpwekludv6vu8pkpnp2hwwf7f84a7mcvgm9t2cvp92hvpxk07kdq8z4xj2).

Because DAO DAO DAOs operate on a blockchain, they are
transparent-by-default. This means that votes, the voting power of
members, and actions a DAO takes are all publicly auditable. This can
help provide trust that DAO members are being good stewards of their
communities.

The programmability of DAOs makes them extremely flexible. DAO DAO is
designed as a set of governance Lego blocks. Communities can pick and
choose pre-built governance components to build a system that works
well for them, or they can program their own.

Any kind of institution can be represented as a DAO. You can launch a
business or an investment group, found a school, or create a popular
assembly for your local community. Our hope is to build a platform
where the challenges of community formation are social, not
bureaucratic.

## Why DAO DAO?

DAO DAO helps you build and operate DAOs with a visual interface. We
take usability extremely seriously. Our tech is good, but we pull all
the stops when it comes to making sure it is usable. Technical and
non-technical communities alike have a space here.

DAO DAO DAOs are also [IBC](https://ibcprotocol.org) enabled. This
means that your DAO on [Juno](https://junonetwork.io) can manage
protocols and hold assets on any IBC enabled chain.

The future is multichain.

## Where do I begin?

If you want to get started building a DAO, check out our
[Quickstart](/quickstart/create-a-dao.md) guide.

If you want to understand more about IBC, DAOs, and how all of these
pieces fit together, see [What does DAO DAO
do?](/docs/more-info/what-does-dao-dao-do)
